## About Me

I'm George. I'm a software developer and graduate student in computer science. 

I'm currently studying neutrality in evolutionary networks. I am building,
along with my adviser, an implementation of [Cartesian Genetic
Programming](http://www.cartesiangp.co.uk/) for the Julia programming language,
[CGP.jl](https://github.com/glesica/CGP.jl) as well as a library for working
with NK fitness landscapes, also for Julia,
[NKLandscapes.jl](https://github.com/glesica/NKLandscapes.jl). You can [read my
thesis](https://github.com/glesica/fitness-thesis) (as it is written) as well.

Apart from evolutionary computation, I am interested in distributed systems,
functional programming (particularly [Elixir](http://elixir-lang.org/)), and
unique and different programming languages. Lately I've been playing around
with [Nim](nim-lang.org) and I have had an on-again off-again relationship with
Scheme for awhile now, [Guix](www.gnu.org/software/guix/) might just be the
catalyst that pushes me into Lisp land. I also have experience building
products on top of graph databases such as [Neo4j](http://neo4j.com/). At work,
I mostly write front-end code using [Dart](https://www.dartlang.org/). I've
previously worked in Python, JavaScript, Java, and a smattering of other
languages.

In the past I studied and taught economics. My MA thesis consisted of
econometric estimates of the informal economy in Latin America. It also
included a chapter comparing different methods using Chile as a case study,
which was interesting given its dramatic currency history. I'm one of the
weirdos behind [The Economics of Seinfeld](http://yadayadayadaecon.com). My
undergraduate degree is in Political Science and, while I probably haven't
"used" the degree in the normal sense, I feel that the experience vastly
improved my life.

In college I studied abroad twice (summer school in both cases), once in
Latvia, at [Vidzeme University-College](http://www.va.lv) and once in Estonia,
at [Tartu University](https://www.ut.ee) (which, interestingly enough, is the
second-oldest Swedish university). The Baltic countries are wonderful, I highly
recommend a visit.

I live in Montana and recently returned from living in Santiago, Chile, where
a friend and I participated in [Startup Chile](http://startupchile.org/).
I enjoy hiking, camping, and cycling with my girlfriend in my free time. We
plan to take up mountain biking as well, provided we can find room to store
more bikes. One of these winters we're also going to work up the courage to go
skiing on real mountains. Maybe. I am also the proud papa of a wonderful little
black cat named [Nutma](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/nutma).

## Elsewhere on the tubes

  * [GitHub](https://github.com/glesica/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/glesica) (warning: political ranting)
  * [Random Acts of Adventure](http://actsofadventure.blogspot.com/) (my blog about living in Chile)
  * [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/glesica)
  * [GOTO10Line.net](http://goto10line.net) (blog about tech stuff)

## Random stuff

  * [Vim config](https://github.com/glesica/vim-config)
  * [Bash Config](https://github.com/glesica/bash-config)
  * [Conway Invaders](https://github.com/glesica/conway-invaders) - mashup of Space Invaders and Conway's Game of Life
  * [Learning Nim](https://github.com/glesica/learning-nim) - a bunch of little Nim programs that illustrate aspects of the language
