
# Capitalism

I just saw an article
([link](http://www.globalresearch.ca/american-dream-food-loaded-into-dumpsters-while-hundreds-of-hungry-americans-restrained-by-police/5329966)),
there is also a somewhat less dramatic, but perhaps
more accurate account
([link](http://chronicle.augusta.com/news/metro/2013-03-27/golden-harvest-food-bank-receive-items-evicted-grocery-store)),
about a foreclosed grocery store. After the bank took
possession, bank officials ordered that all the left-over food should be dumped
in a landfill instead of being distributed to the needy (of which there are many
in the area in question, which has a 41% poverty rate). There were literally
people lined up in the parking lot, yet they were physically restrained by
police (since, of course, the food was still technically property of the bank).

The article has an interesting quote that really gets at the core problem with
capitalism as it is currently implemented in the United States, and really
around the world.

>In a capitalist society, the motive behind the production of food is not to
>feed people, housing is not made to give them shelter, clothing is not made to
>keep them warm, and health care is not offered primarily to keep people
>healthy. All of these things, which are and should be viewed as basic rights,
>are nothing other than commodities-to be bought and sold-from which to make a
>profit. If a profit cannot be made, usually due to overproduction in relation
>to the market, the commodity is considered useless by the capitalist and
>destroyed.

This almost perfectly parallels a passage from Adam Smith in which he describes
the beauty of the market. Essentially, he notes that the baker does not bake to
produce bread for his neighbor, he bakes to create a profit for himself. The
idea, of course, behind capitalism (at least as it is taught in school) is that
the baker does, in fact, produce bread for his neighbor. This is, in some sense,
a victory because it aligns the interests of baker and neighbor and leads to
the production of bread with a minimum of what we can think of as "friction". No
one had to tell the baker to bake, he just did.

Of course this is an understandably attractive idea, especially given the awful
results humanity has witnessed when it has tried other methods of incentivizing
the baker (although it would be naive to say that **all** other methods have
failed, some have worked out just fine at various times and at various scales).

The problem, however, is that it does not take long for the baker to realize
that he can turn his economic role into political power, and by so doing
increase his profits even further. This is what we see today, and this is the
failure of modern capitalism in my eyes.

There isn't anything particularly market-driven about our economy at this point.
The market, such as it is, is really more of a meta-market, where economic and
political power are bought and sold in Washington and on Wall Street. There is
certainly competition, but it is not competition between bakers to produce the
products that people most want to buy at the prices people most want to pay.
Instead, it is competition between bakers for political favors, laws to restrict
competition, punish harmful truth-telling, and generally restrict the rights of
smaller actors within the market.
