# A Market For Water

I just read an
[article](http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v490/n7421/full/490469a.html)
about the creation of a commodities market for fresh water. I am deeply
skeptical about the use (abuse, as I see it) of financial markets, especially
for the provision of things that are absolutely necessary for life. But my
skepticism is related to the implementation and management of these
markets, not the theory behind them.

A market solution is a human solution.  People decide how to structure their
societies, of which economies are a part.  They also decide how to structure
their markets, when they choose to create them. You simply cannot extricate a
market entirely from the people who use it. This is especially true for
financial markets since they are highly formalized.

I should point out that when I say "markets", I mean as they generally exist in
developed countries. There are plenty of markets in other parts of the world
that most of us view as undesirable. The Soviet Union, for instance had a
fully-functioning underground market economy that relied on smuggling and
moonlighting. *Most people* prefer formalized markets, where participants have
some sort of official (read: government and its monopoly on violence) recourse
in cases of fraud and abuse.

The idea that such markets are naturally occurring and "spring forth" out of a
vacuum really isn't well-supported. Russia certainly didn't end up with
anything even approaching a theoretical free market despite the best efforts of
American and European economists (laissez faire may apply to markets
themselves, but not to building them and training people to use them).

In reality, markets are constructed and managed by people (hence the discussion
around "creating" a market for water). Therefore, they can (and do) possess all
the flaws and failures that go along with humanity in general (not speaking
theoretically here, but practically).

The reality is that when you create an actual, existing market you introduce
all sorts of inefficiencies and problems. These problems are not theoretical
and their existence doesn't necessarily undermine the *theory* of markets. The
problems are practical, in the same way that the problems associated with
representative democracy or even Marxism (which would work swimmingly if only
human psychology would cooperate) are practical.

I am comfortable with the theoretical performance of markets. I am extremely
*uncomfortable* with many markets as they exist and are created and managed by
deeply flawed humans.
